Home: Anusandhan National Research Foundation,
			Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
Skip To Main Content
Screen Reader
A+
A
A-
हिन्दी
अनुसंधान नेशनल रिसर्च फाउंडेशन
Anusandhan National Research Foundation
Home
About
Vision. Mission. Goals.
Board, Committee, Organization Structure
Directory
Funding
Research Grants
Awards & Fellowships
Research Networking
Decision Path
Process
Scientific Ethics and Plagiarism
Committee Structure
Results
Disclosures
Annual Reports
Policies
RDI Fund
Careers at RDIF
Recruitment  ▾
Notice regarding Applicant Support and Helpdesk Details for ANRF Recruitment
ANRF - Contractual positions
Notice published in the national dailies for extension of the last date for submission of applications for the posts of Scientist G, Director, Under Secretary, and Accounts Officer.
English
Hindi
*New News Cutting -
English
Hindi
Notice published in the national dailies for extension of the last date for submission of applications for the posts of Scientist D and Scientist C.
English
Hindi
*New News Cutting -
English
Hindi
Email ID for receipt of applications in respect of the advertisements issued by
									ANRF (Notice No. 01/2025 and 02/2025)
Advertisement no. 02/2025 for the post of
									Scientist-D and Scientist-C
English
Hindi
Advertisement no. 01/2025 for the post of
									Scientist-G, Director, Under Secretary and Accounts Officer.
English
Hindi
Science For Society
Prism
SERB
International Research Experience (SIRE)
Home  >
SIRE
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India has launched "SERB International Research Experience (SIRE)".
This Program aims to impart high-end research training in frontier areas of Science and Technology, which are of interest to India by providing opportunity to visit leading institutions/universities across the globe for a period of 02-06 months. The applicant should have Ph.D. degree in the area of Science and Engineering from recognized institutions in India. The applicant holding a permanent position in any Indian research institution would be eligible to apply. The age limit for applying under this scheme shall be 40 years. Age relaxation will be given as per GoI norms in respect of SC/ST/OBC/physically challenged and women candidates. SERB under this program selects candidates in frontier areas of S & T and supports their visit to top institutions around the globe, preferably to the institutions where internationally acclaimed scientists are working. The applicant should himself/herself correspond with the proposed host institution for their visit under this program. The candidate should also submit a letter of approval of research plan from the host.
Objectives
To build national capacity in frontier areas of Science and Technology by providing opportunities for International R&D experience by SIRE fellows.
To tap the expertise gained by SIRE fellows to strengthen/initiate national programmes in their domain knowledge.
To encourage research activities in priority areas which are still less explored in Indian context.
Eligibility
The scheme is open to Indian nationals only.
Applicant should have Ph.D. degree in the area of Science and Engineering from recognized institutions in India. The applicant must hold a permanent position in any Indian research and academic institution.
Applicant having MBBS / MD degree and Veterinary doctors are also eligible to apply
Applicants having Teachers Associateship for Research excellence (TARE) award are also eligible to apply
Applicant must submit a letter of support from the overseas host institution along with application.
The age limit for applying under this scheme shall be 40 years (as on date of submission of application). Age relaxation of 5 years will be given to applicants belonging to SC/ST/OBC/physically challenged and women categories.
Selection
The selection would be made among faculties who gained approval of research plan from overseas institutions. The Board will constitute a selection committee to select the candidates.
Nature & Duration of Support
The selected fellows will be paid a monthly fellowship amount equivalent to US $ 3000, one time Contingency / Preparatory allowances of Rs. 75,000/- to cover visa fee, airport transfer charges, insurance etc., Overseas Medical Insurance in India and abroad of Rs. 20,000/-.
The selected fellows will also be provided shortest route economy class air fare from their place of work in India to the place of the host institute and back.
Guidelines :
The application for consideration under the SERB International Research Experience (SIRE) Program can be submitted through SERB online portal
www.serbonline.in
only when the call for proposal in made.
The applicant has to apply through online portal in the prescribed format.
The maximum duration of the abroad visit is limited to 06 months.
For scientists / researchers in regular employment, rules governing payment of salary, leave, medical, gratuity, GPF and pension etc. of the organization/ institution/ university to which the fellow belongs would continue to be applicable as per their institutional norms. No liability on any of these will be borne by SERB.
The candidates selected under this programme should commence their research in overseas institution within one month from the date of the offer letter, and if not, the offer will be automatically stands withdrawn and no correspondence will be entertained thereafter.
Applicant must submit the endorsement letter duly signed by the head of organization/ institute where the applicant is employed.
The candidate should also submit a letter of approval of research plan from the host.
Copy of acceptance letter from host institution.
How To Apply Online :
For successful online submission of the application the following points may be noted:
Applicant should first register into the online website.
click here to register.
After successful registration, user will be sent a confirmation mail on registered emaiID. User must click on the url provided in the mail to confirm registration.
After log-in, applicant(s) are required to fill all the mandatory fields in Profile Detail section under User Profile. which includes Bio-data, Photo, Institute Address etc.
Details like Qualification, Research Experience, Fellowships (if any), Employment, Patent(if any), Publications(if any) , Projects(if any), Research Collaborations(if any) have to be provided.
Some of the details of your proposed work like Title (max 500 characters), Keywords (max 6), Expected output and outcome (max 1500 characters) and Tentative dates of visit etc. have to be entered at the time of submission.
Research Plan has to be uploaded in single PDF file not more than 10 MB.
Download Template
How To Apply Online :
For successful online submission of the application the following points may be noted:
Bio-data of applicant
Download Template
Bio-data of Overseas Host Scientist
Consent letter from host
Download Template
Research Plan.
Download Template
Plagiarism undertaking
Download Template
Certificate from Applicant.
Download Template
Endorsement Letter from the Head of Institution.
Download Template
Age Proof Certificate (Class X marksheet or Birth certificate)
Category Certificate (In case of Age Relaxation)
Name of the Program
Program Coordinator
Program Officer
SERB International Research Experience (SIRE)
Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey
Scientist G
Dr. Magesh Kumar K.K
Scientist E
About Us
- Vision. Mission. Goals.
- Board, Committee, Organization Structure
- Directory
Funding
- Research Grants
- Awards & Fellowships
- Research Networking
Decision Path
- Process
- Scientific Ethics and Plagiarism
- Committee Structure
- Results
Disclosures
- Annual Reports
- Policies
Compliance
- ICC Women
- RTI
- Vigilance
Other links
- Contact Us
- Orders & Circulars
- Covid Updates
- Related Websites
- FAQs
Copyright © Anusandhan National Research Foundation - All Rights Reserved
SiteMap
|
Website Policies
|
Terms & Conditions
|
Accessibility Statement
|
Disclaimer
|
Contact Us